In this lesson we look at
one more clustering algorithm called Gaussian Mixture Model Clustering.
This is a soft clustering algorithm,
which means that every point,
every sample in our dataset will belong to every cluster that we have,
but would have different levels of membership in each cluster.
So what Gaussian Mixture Model Clustering does is,
it would look at the points that we have,
so let's look at this example in one dimensions.
And it would say, "This set of points seems like it would have been generated by
a Gaussian distribution that looks like this," so I'll
give them the highest membership in this cluster.
And these seem to have been generated by a Gaussian distribution that looks like this,
and so I'll give them the highest membership in this cluster.
And this also works in two dimensions as well,
and we'll talk about what it means to be
a Gaussian distribution in two or more dimensions as well.
And this clustering algorithm works really well on this dataset that we looked at before.
And then we'll look at the cluster analysis process.
So choosing the clustering algorithm is just only one step.
We have a number of steps to,
hopefully, turn our data into knowledge.
We'll talk about that process and how it goes
and then we'll end the lesson by talking about cluster validation,
which is how to score a clustering after we execute it.
And, how do we compare
different clustering algorithms and their results on a certain dataset.